.TH LPD_PRINT 1 "APRIL 1999" Linux "pdq printing manuals"
.SH NAME
lpd_print \- send a file to a remote lpd print spooler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "lpd_print [-f " file "] [-j " id_num "] [-v] [-n] " queue @ host 
.BI " | " host " [" queue ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B lpd_print 
sends data to the BSD line printer daemon at 
.IR host .
The job is spooled to  
.IR queue ,
or 
.I lp
if not specified.  The job id given to the remote host is
.IR id_num ,
or 1 if not specified.  If 
.I file
is not specified, 
.B lpd_print
sends data from 
.BR STDIN .
No banner page will be printed.

To be compliant with RFC-1179, this program must run SUID root, so that
a privileged outbound port may be used.  However, many lpd servers found on
networked printers do not enforce this requirement.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-f \fIfile"
Send data from 
.I file
instead of
.BR STDIN .
.IP "-j \fIjob_id"
Set the job id to be
.IR job_id .
This should be a three digit number from 001 to 999.  Default is 001.
.IP -v
Print warnings and fatal errors.
.IP -vv
Print warnings, fatal errors, and informative messages.
.IP -vvv
Print everything (debug level).
.IP -n
Select the "nasty" cancel model.  If a 
.BR SIGTERM 
is received and job data is being sent, close the socket immediately.  This
may cause confusion and timeout problems on the remote server.
.SH SIGNALS
Upon receipt of 
.BR SIGTERM ,
lpd_print will send the remote server an abort command, if possible.  If
data is already being sent, the data will finish sending and an abort
command will be sent, unless the -n option is chosen, in which case the
socket will close immediately.
.SH BUGS
The timeout value for the connect is not adjustable.  Many details of the 
control file cannot be specified.
.SH AUTHOR
Jacob A. Langford <langford@uiuc.edu>
.SH SEE ALSO
lpd_status(1), lpd_cancel(1), RFC-1179
